README.md, before:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/91ce92f8-211d-4058-98c5-c57183cc31b9/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/onlinker-app/deploys)

# Event Discovery App
ONLINKERS' Event Web Application

Some libraries used in this app:
- Router via `react-router`
- Storage Management via `redux` and `redux-thunk`
- Component Styles via `ant-d`
- Maps via `mapbox-gl` + `mapbox-gl-geocoder`
- HTTP Requests via `axios`

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js v12 (npm v6) (Download [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))
- EsLint v6.8 (Setup Instructions [here](https://eslint.org/))
- Typescript v3 (Download [here](https://www.typescriptlang.org/))

### Installing

1. Clone the repository: ```git clone```
2. Install the packages: ```cd event-discovery-app``` and ```npm install```
3. Setup the [environmental files](#environmental-files)

### Running

Start the web app by running

```npm start```

This should open a browser tab with the URL: "http://localhost:8000". The port 8000 may differ if you are running multiple instances of the app, but in general 800x. If a browser tab isn't opened, simply look through the logs on the CLI to find the address.

Depending on the environmental file setup, you may/may not need to run the api alongside the application. For more information about environmental files, see [environmental files](#environmental-files)

## Development

Development is recommended to be done on a system where [eslint](https://eslint.org/) is installed, and using [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### Linting

Linters are put into place to exercise good and consistent coding style, regardless of developer. Editing lint rules and such can be done by changing the `.eslintrc.js` file, which is not recommended until approved by lead developers of the team.

Lint checks will run during a *pre-commit*, meaning that they will throw an error and abort the commit if the style checks detect an error (warnings are ignored)

<hr />

Further good coding practices can be addressed by reading [this](https://github.com/orgs/onlinkers/teams/principal/discussions/1) document on the **TEAMS** page

<hr />

### Environmental Files

A dotenv (`.env`) environmental file needs to be created at `root`

> You can do this easily by copying and renaming one of the existing files, such as `.env.default`

- `.env.default` will rely on a local development space, and require the API to be running locally alongside the app
- `.env.stage` will rely on an external instance of the API to be running, which makes use of the API in the stage environment
- (WITH CAUTION) `.env.prod` will also rely on an external instance of the API to be running in the production environment

### Components and Utilities

Custom pages are located in `src/views`, while custom-created components are located in `src/components`

Any miscellaneous functions are located in `src/utils`, where `src/utils/index.js` compiles all the functions and exports them for easy importing

### API Requests and Services

Throughout the application, service functions will be using `axios` to make HTTP requests to save/recieve data from the backend database. The axios client is initialized in the `src/api.js` folder, which is used to make different requests as used by the service files located in `src/services`.

> Axios is used because of its advantage in handling JSON conversion, error responses, and compatibility with the Promise API introduced in ES6. 

When a service is used, the function will return a promise, which can then be used dynamically by chaining with functions specified in `.then` and `.catch` calls

### Styles

Styles are written **inside** or `.scss` files alongside each component file

Overwrites to libraries or global style variables and constants can be written in `src/assets/scss`, which is pre-pended in the root component. We utilize scss mixins and variables, which can be included anywhere in the application (eg: `@include tablet-portrait` for mixins and `color: $gray1` for variables)

Other than scss breakpoints, the same logic is replicated in the `breakpoint` state in `ThemeContext`, which can also be used anywhere throughout the app.

## Deployment

### Building

Run `npm run build` to minify and compile the application for production. Build location is in the `build` folder

### Stage and Production Deployment

The application's `master` branch is currently built on Netlify for live viewing/testing. Build settings can be accessed ONLY through the onlinker-admin netlify account. Netlify teams has a billing plan which we are too cheap to purchase as of now.

Our application in stage environment can be accessed on: https://vibevent-stage.netlify.app

To deploy the application to our `production` environment, a Github release can be done on the GUI, which automatically updates the `prod` branch with the most recent updates on `master`. This process should be automatically conducted by Github Actions.

## Contributing

Contributions are only accepted from members of the [team](https://github.com/orgs/onlinkers/people). Instructions to start contributing are as follows:

1. Clone the remote repository into a local environment
2. Setup the repository (instructions [here](#getting-started))
3. Make the appropriate edits and additions
4. Submit pull requests using one of the templates, and with a detailed commit message of what additions were made
--> Pull requests will be accepted after being reviewed and after the appropriate tests are conducted

### Built With

* [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html) - View Javascript Framework
* [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) - Build and Deployment

### Customize configuration
See [Configuration Reference](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/advanced-configuration/).

Commit message:

Feature/images (#130)
* better image rendering for event details

* image component

* hotfix -- edit styles

* image upload template

* working imag euploader

* clean and abstract functions

* dynamically get bucket name

* add dev cognito user pool

* improve image component

* smallfixes for event edits

* abstract image uploader to a component

* hotfix -- remove console logs, styling

* working image uploader

* hotfix -- cleaning

* log env

* Revert "log env"

This reverts commit 7f28e024c7fc6c58d86c73b079ee0c9a2b05aa03.

* use stage for netlify deploy previews

* change the use of NODE_ENV to REACT_APP_ENVIRONMENT

* hotfix -- better docs

* hotfix -- clean the use of 'stage' and 'environment'

README.md, after:

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/91ce92f8-211d-4058-98c5-c57183cc31b9/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/onlinker-app/deploys)

# Event Discovery App
ONLINKERS' Event Web Application

Some libraries used in this app:
- Router via `react-router`
- Storage Management via `redux` and `redux-thunk`
- Component Styles via `ant-d`
- Maps via `mapbox-gl` + `mapbox-gl-geocoder`
- HTTP Requests via `axios`

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js v12 (npm v6) (Download [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))
- EsLint v6.8 (Setup Instructions [here](https://eslint.org/))
- Typescript v3 (Download [here](https://www.typescriptlang.org/))

### Installing

1. Clone the repository: ```git clone```
2. Install the packages: ```cd event-discovery-app``` and ```npm install```
3. Setup the [environmental files](#environmental-files)

### Running

Start the web app by running

```npm start```

This should open a browser tab with the URL: "http://localhost:8000". The port 8000 may differ if you are running multiple instances of the app, but in general 800x. If a browser tab isn't opened, simply look through the logs on the CLI to find the address.

Depending on the environmental file setup, you may/may not need to run the api alongside the application. For more information about environmental files, see [environmental files](#environmental-files)

## Development

Development is recommended to be done on a system where [eslint](https://eslint.org/) is installed, and using [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### Linting

Linters are put into place to exercise good and consistent coding style, regardless of developer. Editing lint rules and such can be done by changing the `.eslintrc.js` file, which is not recommended until approved by lead developers of the team.

Lint checks will run during a *pre-commit*, meaning that they will throw an error and abort the commit if the style checks detect an error (warnings are ignored)

<hr />

Further good coding practices can be addressed by reading [this](https://github.com/orgs/onlinkers/teams/principal/discussions/1) document on the **TEAMS** page

<hr />

### Environmental Files

A dotenv (`.env`) environmental file needs to be created at `root`

> You can do this easily by copying and renaming one of the existing files, such as `.env.default`

- `.env.default` will rely on a local development space, and require the API to be running locally alongside the app
- `.env.stage` will rely on an external instance of the API to be running, which makes use of the API in the stage environment
- (WITH CAUTION) `.env.prod` will also rely on an external instance of the API to be running in the production environment

The environmental variable `REACT_APP_ENVIRONMENT` is used to keep track of our application's environment. `NODE_ENV` is only used during building (`react-app-rewired` has some optimizations in place for building when `NODE_ENV` is 'production')

### Components and Utilities

Custom pages are located in `src/views`, while custom-created components are located in `src/components`

Any miscellaneous functions are located in `src/utils`, where `src/utils/index.js` compiles all the functions and exports them for easy importing

### API Requests and Services

Throughout the application, service functions will be using `axios` to make HTTP requests to save/recieve data from the backend database. The axios client is initialized in the `src/api.js` folder, which is used to make different requests as used by the service files located in `src/services`.

> Axios is used because of its advantage in handling JSON conversion, error responses, and compatibility with the Promise API introduced in ES6. 

When a service is used, the function will return a promise, which can then be used dynamically by chaining with functions specified in `.then` and `.catch` calls

### Styles

Styles are written **inside** or `.scss` files alongside each component file

Overwrites to libraries or global style variables and constants can be written in `src/assets/scss`, which is pre-pended in the root component. We utilize scss mixins and variables, which can be included anywhere in the application (eg: `@include tablet-portrait` for mixins and `color: $gray1` for variables)

Other than scss breakpoints, the same logic is replicated in the `breakpoint` state in `ThemeContext`, which can also be used anywhere throughout the app.

## Deployment

### Building

Run `npm run build` to minify and compile the application for production. Build location is in the `build` folder

### Stage and Production Deployment

The application's `master` branch is currently built on Netlify for live viewing/testing. Build settings can be accessed ONLY through the onlinker-admin netlify account. Netlify teams has a billing plan which we are too cheap to purchase as of now.

Our application in stage environment can be accessed on: https://vibevent-stage.netlify.app

To deploy the application to our `production` environment, a Github release can be done on the GUI, which automatically updates the `prod` branch with the most recent updates on `master`. This process should be automatically conducted by Github Actions.

## Contributing

Contributions are only accepted from members of the [team](https://github.com/orgs/onlinkers/people). Instructions to start contributing are as follows:

1. Clone the remote repository into a local environment
2. Setup the repository (instructions [here](#getting-started))
3. Make the appropriate edits and additions
4. Submit pull requests using one of the templates, and with a detailed commit message of what additions were made
--> Pull requests will be accepted after being reviewed and after the appropriate tests are conducted

### Built With

* [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html) - View Javascript Framework
* [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) - Build and Deployment

### Customize configuration
See [Configuration Reference](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/advanced-configuration/).
